---
title: "U.S. Political Map"
layout: page
---


 ![A map shows the 48 contiguous states of the U.S., with Alaska and Hawaii shown in insets. The main map shows the Atlantic Ocean, Pacific Ocean, and Gulf of Mexico. The great lakes are labeled: Lake Superior, Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, Lake Erie, and Lake Ontario. Canada, Mexico, Cuba, and The Bahamas are shown. These 48 contiguous states and their capitals are labeled: Alabama (Montgomery), Arizona (Phoenix), Arkansas (Little Rock), California (Sacramento), Colorado (Denver), Connecticut (Hartford), Delaware (Dover), Florida (Tallahassee), Georgia (Atlanta), Idaho (Boise), Illinois (Springfield), Indiana (Indianapolis), Iowa (Des Moines), Kansas (Topeka), Kentucky (Frankfort), Louisiana (Baton Rouge), Maine (Augusta), Maryland (Annapolis), Massachusetts (Boston), Michigan (Lansing), Minnesota (St. Paul), Mississippi (Jackson), Missouri (Jefferson City), Montana (Helena), Nebraska (Lincoln), Nevada (Carson City), New Hampshire (Concord), New Jersey (Trenton), New Mexico (Santa Fe), New York (Albany), North Carolina (Raleigh), North Dakota (Bismarck), Ohio (Columbus), Oklahoma (Oklahoma City), Oregon (Salem), Pennsylvania (Harrisburg), Rhode Island (Providence), South Carolina (Columbia), South Dakota (Pierre), Tennessee (Nashville), Texas (Austin), Utah (Salt Lake City), Vermont (Montpelier), Virginia (Richmond), Washington (Olympia), West Virginia (Charleston), Wisconsin (Madison), Wyoming (Cheyenne). Washington DC is shown. An inset shows the position of the U.S. mainland, Alaska, and Hawaii in relation to the north pole, Eurasia, and South America. An inset shows Hawaii (Honolulu) in the Pacific Ocean. An inset shows Alaska (Juneau) surrounded by the Arctic Ocean, Gulf of Alaska, Bering Sea, and Pacific Ocean.](../resources/CNX_History_00_DD_StateMap.jpg "(credit: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey, The National Atlas of the United States of America/nationalatlas.gov)"){: #CNX_History_00_DD_StateMap}


