---
title: "Further Reading"
layout: page
---


### THE PRE-COLUMBIAN WORLD AND EARLY GLOBALIZATION

Alchon, Suzanne Austin. 2003. *A Pest in the Land: New World Epidemics in a Global Perspective*. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press.

Brown, Kathleen M. 1996. *Good Wives, Nasty Wenches, and Anxious Patriarchs: Gender, Race, and Power in Colonial Virginia*. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.

Clendinnen, Inga. 1991. *Aztecs: An Interpretation*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Cook, Harold John. 2007. *Matters of Exchange: Commerce, Medicine, and Science in the Dutch Golden Age*. New Haven: Yale University Press.

Curtin, Philip D. 1990. *The Rise and Fall of the Plantation Complex: Essays in Atlantic History*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Leon, Portilla Miguel. (1992) 2006. *The Broken Spears: The Aztec Account of the Conquest of Mexico*. Boston: Beacon Press.

Mann, Charles C. 2005. *1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus*. New York: Knopf.

—. 2011. *1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created*. New York: Knopf.

Meltzer, David J. 2009. *First Peoples in a New World: Colonizing Ice Age America*. Berkeley: University of California Press.

Niane, Djibril Tamsir. 1965. *Sundiata: An Epic of Old Mali*. Translated by G. D. Pickett. London: Longmans.

Northrup, David. 2013. *Africa\'s Discovery of Europe*. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Pagden, Anthony. 1995. *Lords of all the World: Ideologies of Empire in Spain, Britain and France c.1500–c.1800*. New Haven: Yale University Press.

Prescott, William Hickling. 1936. *History of the Conquest of Mexico, and History of the Conquest of Peru*. New York: Modern Library.

Seed, Patricia. 1995. *Ceremonies of Possession in Europe’s Conquest of the New World, 1492–1640*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Taylor, Alan. 2002. *American Colonies*. New York: Penguin Books.

Thornton, John K. 1992. *Africa and Africans in the Making of the Atlantic World, 1400–1680*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Wey Gómez, Nicolás. 2008. *The Tropics of Empire: Why Columbus Sailed South to the Indies*. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

### THE COLONIAL AMERICAS

Bailyn, Bernard. 2012. *The Barbarous Years: The Peopling of British North America: The Conflict of Civilizations, 1600–1675*. New York: Vintage Books.

Berlin, Ira. 1998. *Many Thousands Gone: The First Two Centuries of Slavery in North America*. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press.

Calloway, Colin G. 2011. *First Peoples: A Documentary Survey of American Indian History*. Fourth edition, Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s Press.

Elliott, J. H. 2006. *Empires of the Atlantic World: Britain and Spain in America, 1492–1830*. New Haven: Yale University Press.

Fischer, David H. 1989. *Albion’s Seed: Four British Folkways in America*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Gaustad, Edwin S. 1982. *A Documentary History of Religion in America*. Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans.

Gibson, Charles. 1964. *The Aztecs Under Spanish Rule: A History of the Indians of the Valley of Mexico, 1519–1810*. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.

Hatfield, April Lee. 2004. *Atlantic Virginia: Intercolonial Relations in the Seventeenth Century*. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.

Liss, Peggy K. 1975. *Mexico Under Spain, 1521–1556: Society and the Origins of Nationality*. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Morgan, Edmund S. 1958. *The Puritan Dilemma: The Story of John Winthrop*. Boston: Little, Brown.

Rediker, Marcus. 2007. *The Slave Ship: A Human History*. New York: Viking Books.

Richter, Daniel K. 2001. *Facing East from Indian Country: A Native History of Early America*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Roberts, David. 2004. *The Pueblo Revolt: The Secret Rebellion that Drove the Spaniards Out of the Southwest*. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.

Spicer, Edward Holland. 1962. *Cycles of Conquest: The Impact of Spain, Mexico, and the United States on the Indians of the Southwest, 1533–1960*. Tucson: University of Arizona Press.

Twinam, Ann. 1982. *Miners, Merchants, and Farmers in Colonial Colombia*. Austin: University of Texas Press.

Weber, David J. 1992. *The Spanish Frontier in North America*. New Haven: Yale University Press.

### REFORM, PROTEST, AND REVOLUTION

Anderson, Fred. 2005. *The War That Made America: A Short History of the French and Indian War*. New York: Viking Books.

Bailyn, Bernard. 1986. *The Peopling of British North America: An Introduction*. New York: Knopf Doubleday.

Breen, Timothy H. 2004. *The Marketplace of Revolution: How Consumer Politics Shaped American Independence*. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Butler, Jon. 2000. *Becoming America: The Revolution before 1776*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Calloway, Colin G. 1995. *The American Revolution in Indian Country: Crisis and Diversity in Native American Communities*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Cook, Don. 1995. *The Long Fuse: How England Lost the American Colonies, 1760–1785*. New York: Atlantic Monthly Press.

Egerton, Douglas R. 2009. *Death or Liberty: African Americans and Revolutionary America*. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Ellis, Joseph J. 2003. *Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation*. New York: Random House.

Fischer, David Hackett. 2004. *Washington’s Crossing*. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Fleming, Thomas J. 1997. *Liberty! The American Revolution*. New York: Viking Books.

Holton, Woody. 1999. *Forced Founders: Indians, Debtors, Slaves, and the Making of the American Revolution in Virginia*. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.

—. 2007. *Unruly Americans and the Origins of the Constitution*. New York: Hill and Wang.

Isaac, Rhys. 1982. *The Transformation of Virginia, 1740-1790*. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.

Lovejoy, David S. 1972. *The Glorious Revolution in America*. New York: Harper &amp; Row.

McCullough, David. 2005. *1776*. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.

Middlekauff, Robert. 1982. *The Glorious Cause: The American Revolution, 1763–1789*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Noll, Mark A. 2003. *The Rise of Evangelicalism: The Age of Edwards, Whitefield, and the Wesleys*. Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press.

Norton, Mary Beth. 1980. *Liberty’s Daughters: The Revolutionary Experience of American Women, 1750–1800*. Boston: Little, Brown.

Olwell, Robert. 1998. *Masters, Slaves &amp; Subjects: The Culture of Power in the South Carolina Low Country, 1740–1790*. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.

Rakove, Jack N. 2010. *Revolutionaries: A New History of the Invention of America*. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.

Raphael, Ray. 2001. *A People’s History of the American Revolution: How Common People Shaped the Fight for Independence*. New York: New Press.

Stout, Harry S. 1991. *The Divine Dramatist: George Whitefield and the Rise of Modern Evangelicalism*. Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans.

Webb, Stephen Saunders. 1995. *Lord Churchill’s Coup: The Anglo-American Empire and the Glorious Revolution Reconsidered*. New York: Knopf.

Wood, Gordon S. 1992. *The Radicalism of the American Revolution*. New York: Knopf.

Young, Alfred Fabian. 1999. *The Shoemaker and the Tea Party: Memory and the American Revolution*. Boston: Beacon Press.

### THE EARLY REPUBLIC

Appleby, Joyce Oldham. 2000. *Inheriting the Revolution: The First Generation of Americans*. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press.

Dubois, Laurent. 2004. *Avengers of the New World: The Story of the Haitian Revolution*. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press.

Ellis, Joseph J. 1997. *American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson*. New York: Knopf.

Ferling, John. 2004. *Adams vs. Jefferson: The Tumultuous Election of 1800*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Hickey, Donald R. 1989. *The War of 1812: A Forgotten Conflict*. Urbana: University of Illinois Press.

Kamensky, Jane. 2008. *The Exchange Artist: A Tale of High-Flying Speculation and America’s First Banking Collapse*. New York: Viking Books.

Langguth, A. J. 2006. *Union 1812: The Americans Who Fought the Second War of Independence*. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.

Litwack, Leon F. 1961. *North of Slavery: The Negro in the Free States, 1790–1860*. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Maier, Pauline. 1997. *American Scripture: Making the Declaration of Independence*. New York: Knopf.

Smith, Jean Edward. 1996. *John Marshall: Definer of a Nation*. New York: Holt.

Taylor, Alan. 2010. *The Civil War of 1812: American Citizens, British Subjects, Irish Rebels, &amp; Indian Allies*. New York: Vintage Books.

### INDUSTRIALIZATION AND TRANSFORMATION

Blackmar, Elizabeth. 1989. *Manhattan for Rent, 1785–1850*. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.

Howe, Daniel Walker. 2007. *What Hath God Wrought: The Transformation of America, 1815–1848*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Igler, David. 2013. *The Great Ocean: Pacific Worlds from Captain Cook to the Gold Rush*. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Johnson, Paul E. 1978. *A Shopkeeper’s Millennium: Society and Revivals in Rochester, New York, 1815–1837*. New York: Hill and Wang.

Johnson, Walter. 1999. *Soul by Soul: Life Inside the Antebellum Slave Market*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Marx, Leo. 1964. *The Machine in the Garden: Technology and the Pastoral Ideal in America*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Rees, Jonathan. 2013. *Industrialization and the Transformation of American Life: A Brief Introduction*. Armonk, NY: M.E. Sharpe.

Sandage, Scott A. 2005. *Born Losers: A History of Failure in America*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

### JACKSONIAN DEMOCRACY

Allgor, Catherine. 2000. *Parlor Politics: In Which the Ladies of Washington Help Build a City and a Government*. Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press.

Deloria, Philip Joseph. 1998. *Playing Indian*. New Haven: Yale University Press.

Deyle, Steven. 2005. *Carry Me Back: The Domestic Slave Trade in American Life*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Dippie, Brian W. 1982. *The Vanishing American: White Attitudes and U.S. Indian Policy*. Middletown, CT: Wesleyan University Press.

Feller, Daniel. 1995. *The Jacksonian Promise: America, 1815–1840*. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press.

Marszalek, John F. 1997. *The Petticoat Affair: Manners, Mutiny, and Sex in Andrew Jackson’s White House*. New York: Free Press.

Meacham, Jon. 2008. *American Lion: Andrew Jackson in the White House*. New York: Random House.

Mihm, Stephen. 2007. *A Nation of Counterfeiters: Capitalists, Con Men, and the Making of the United States*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Saxton, Alexander. 1990. *The Rise and Fall of the White Republic: Class Politics and Mass Culture in Nineteenth-Century America*. London: Verso.

Sellers, Charles. 1991. *The Market Revolution: Jacksonian America, 1815–1846*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Steinberg, Theodore. 1991. *Nature Incorporated: Industrialization and the Waters of New England*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Watson, Harry L. 1990. *Liberty and Power: The Politics of Jacksonian America*. New York: Hill and Wang.

—. 1998. *Andrew Jackson vs. Henry Clay: Democracy and Development in Antebellum America*. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s Press.

Wilentz, Sean. 2005. *The Rise of American Democracy: Jefferson to Lincoln*. New York: Norton.

### THE ANTEBELLUM SOUTH

Berlin, Ira. 2003. *Generations of Captivity: A History of African-American Slaves*. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press.

Clark, Emily. 2013. *The Strange History of the American Quadroon: Free Women of Color in the Revolutionary Atlantic World*. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.

Delfino, Susanna, and Michele Gillespie. 2002. *Neither Lady nor Slave: Working Women of the Old South*. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.

Fox-Genovese, Elizabeth. 1988. *Within the Plantation Household: Black and White Women of the Old South*. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.

Genovese, Eugene D. 1974. *Roll, Jordan, Roll: The World the Slaves Made*. New York: Pantheon Books.

Hall, Gwendolyn Midlo. 1992. *Africans in Colonial Louisiana: The Development of Afro-Creole Culture in the Eighteenth Century*. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press.

Johnson, Walter. 1999. *Soul by Soul: Life Inside the Antebellum Slave Market*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

McCurry, Stephanie. 1995. *Masters of Small Worlds: Yeoman Households, Gender Relations, and the Political Culture of the Antebellum South Carolina Low Country*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Potter, David Morris, and Don E. Fehrenbacher. 1976. *The Impending Crisis, 1848–1861*. New York: Harper &amp; Row.

Rasmussen, Daniel. 2011. *American Uprising: The Untold Story of America’s Largest Slave Revolt*. New York: HarperCollins.

Wyatt-Brown, Bertram. 1982. *Southern Honor: Ethics and Behavior in the Old South*. New York: Oxford University Press.

### REFORM AND ABOLITION

DuBois, Ellen Carol. 1978. *Feminism and Suffrage: The Emergence of an Independent Women’s Movement in America, 1848-1869*. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.

DuBois, Ellen Carol, and Lynn Dumenil. 2005. *Through Women’s Eyes: An American History with Documents*. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s Press.

Heyrman, Christine Leigh. 1997. *Southern Cross: The Beginnings of the Bible Belt*. New York: Knopf.

Mayer, Henry. 1998. *All On Fire: William Lloyd Garrison and the Abolition of Slavery*. New York: Bedford/St. Martin’s Press.

Mintz, Steven. 1995. *Moralists and Modernizers: America’s Pre-Civil War Reformers*. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press.

Rorabaugh, W. J. 1979. *The Alcoholic Republic, an American Tradition*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Stewart, James Brewer. 1976. *Holy Warriors: The Abolitionists and American Slavery*. New York: Hill and Wang.

### CIVIL WAR AND RECONSTRUCTION

Alcott, Louisa May, and Bessie Zahan Jones. 1960. *Hospital Sketches*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Berlin, Ira, Joseph P. Reidy, and Leslie S. Rowland. 1998. *Freedom’s Soldiers: The Black Military Experience in the Civil War*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Blight, David W. 2001. *Race and Reunion: The Civil War in American Memory*. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press.

Catton, Bruce. 1962. *Mr. Lincoln’s Army*. Garden City, NY: Doubleday.

Donald, David Herbert. 1960. *Charles Sumner and the Coming of the Civil War*. New York: Knopf.

Earle, Jonathan Halperin. 2008. *John Brown’s Raid on Harpers Ferry: A Brief History with Documents*. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s Press.

Egerton, Douglas R. 2014. *The Wars of Reconstruction: The Brief, Violent History of America’s Most Progressive Era*. London: Bloomsbury Press.

Emberton, Carole. 2013. *Beyond Redemption: Race, Violence, and the American South After the Civil War*. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Faust, Drew Gilpin. 2008. *This Republic of Suffering: Death and the American Civil War*. New York: Knopf.

Fehrenbacher, Don E. 1978. *The Dred Scott Case, Its Significance in American Law and Politics*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Foner, Eric. 1970. *Free Soil, Free Labor, Free Men: The Ideology of the Republican Party Before the Civil War*. New York: Oxford University Press.

—. 2006. *Forever Free: The Story of Emancipation and Reconstruction*. New York: Vintage Books.

Gallagher, Gary W. 2011. *The Union War*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

—. 2013. *Becoming Confederates: Paths to a New National Loyalty*. Atlanta: University of Georgia Press.

Gienapp, William E. 2002. *Abraham Lincoln and Civil War America: A Biography*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Goodwin, Doris Kearns. 2006. *Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln*. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.

Guelzo, Allen C. 2013. *Gettysburg: The Last Invasion*. New York: Knopf

Hahn, Steven. 2003. *A Nation Under Our Feet: Black Political Struggles in the Rural South, from Slavery to the Great Migration*. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press.

Holt, Michael F. 1978. *The Political Crisis of the 1850s*. New York: Wiley.

LaFantasie, Glenn W. 2007. *Twilight at Little Round Top: July 2, 1863—The Tide Turns at Gettysburg*. New York: Vintage Books.

Lemann, Nicholas. 2006. *Redemption: The Last Battle of the Civil War*. New York: Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux.

Levine, Bruce C., and Eric Foner. 1992. *Half Slave and Half Free: The Roots of Civil War*. New York: Hill and Wang.

Manning, Chanda. 2008. *What this Cruel War Was Over: Soldiers, Slavery, and the Civil War*. New York: Vintage Books.

McPherson, James M. 1994. *What They Fought For 1861–1865*. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press.

Oates, Stephen B. 1970. *To Purge This Land with Blood: A Biography of John Brown*. New York: Harper &amp; Row.

Richardson, Heather Cox. 2001. *The Death of Reconstruction: Race, Labor, and Politics in the Post-Civil War North, 1865–1901*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Stampp, Kenneth M. 1990. *America in 1857: A Nation on the Brink*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Thomas, Emory M. 1991. *The Confederacy as a Revolutionary Experience*. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press.

Vorenberg, Michael. 2001. *Final Freedom: The Civil War, the Abolition of Slavery, and the Thirteenth Amendment*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Williams, Heather Andrea. 2005. *Self-Taught: African American Education in Slavery and Freedom*. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.

### WESTWARD EXPANSION

Brown, Dee. 1970. *Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West*. New York: Holt Rinehart Winston.

Dando-Collins, Stephen. 2008. *Tycoon’s War: How Cornelius Vanderbilt Invaded a Country to Overthrow America’s Most Famous Military Adventurer*. Philadelphia: Da Capo Press.

Greenberg, Amy S. 2012. *A Wicked War: Polk, Clay, Lincoln, and the 1846 U.S. Invasion of Mexico*. New York: Knopf.

Madley, Benjamin. 2012. “The Genocide of California’s Yana Indians.” In *Centuries of Genocide: Essays and Eyewitness Accounts*, edited by Samuel Totten and Williams S. Parsons, 16–53. New York: Routledge.

Mahon, John K. 1967. *History of the Second Seminole War, 1835–1842*. Gainesville: University of Florida Press.

Neihardt, John G. 1975. *Black Elk Speaks: Being the Life Story of a Holy Man of the Oglala Sioux*. New York: Pocket Books.

Richardson, Heather Cox. 2008. *West from Appomattox: The Reconstruction of America After the Civil War*. New Haven: Yale University Press.

Soluri, John. 2005. *Banana Cultures: Agriculture, Consumption, and Environmental Change in Honduras and the United States*. Austin: University of Texas Press.

Stephanson, Anders. 1995. *Manifest Destiny: American Expansionism and the Empire of Right*. New York: Hill and Wang.

White, Richard. 2011. *Railroaded: The Transcontinentals and the Making of Modern America*. New York: Norton.

### FROM THE GILDED AGE TO THE PROGRESSIVE ERA

Addams, Jane, and Norah Hamilton. 1910. *Twenty Years at Hull-House: With Autobiographical Notes*. New York: Macmillan.

Bederman, Gail. 1995. *Manliness &amp; Civilization: A Cultural History of Gender and Race in the United States, 1880–1917*. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Berg, A. Scott. 2013. *Wilson*. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.

Boyer, Paul S. 1978. *Urban Masses and Moral Order in America, 1820–1920*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Chauncey, George. 1994. *Gay New York: Gender, Urban Culture, and the Makings of the Gay Male World, 1890-1940*. New York: Basic Books.

Cronon, William. 1991. *Nature\'s Metropolis: Chicago and the Great West*. New York: Norton.

Dalton, Kathleen. 2002. *Theodore Roosevelt: A Strenuous Life*. New York: Knopf.

Dewey, John. 1915. *The School and Society*. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.

Du Bois, W. E. B., David W. Blight, and Robert Gooding-Williams. 1997. *The Souls of Black Folk*. Boston: Bedford Books.

Fitzpatrick, Ellen F., Lincoln Steffens, Ida M. Tarbell, and Ray Stannard Baker. 1994. *Muckraking: Three Landmark Articles*. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s Press.

Gilmore, Glenda E. 1996. *Gender and Jim Crow: Women and the Politics of White Supremacy in North Carolina*. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.

Goodwin, Doris Kearns. 2013. *The Bully Pulpit: Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and the Golden Age of Journalism*. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.

Goodwyn, Lawrence. 1976. *Democratic Promise: The Populist Moment in America*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Hershkowitz, Leo. 1977. *Tweed’s New York: Another Look*. Garden City, NY: Anchor Press.

James, William. 1975. *Pragmatism*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Kraditor, Aileen S. 1981. *The Ideas of the Woman Suffrage Movement 1890–1920*. New York: Norton.

Lears, T. J. Jackson. 2009. *Rebirth of a Nation: The Making of Modern America, 1877–1920*. New York: HarperCollins.

Lunardini, Christine A. 1986. *From Equal Suffrage to Equal Rights: Alice Paul and the National Woman’s Party, 1910–1928*. New York: New York University Press.

Matthews, Jean V. 2003. *The Rise of the New Woman: The Women’s Movement in America, 1875–1930*. Chicago: Dee.

Osofsky, Gilbert. 1971. *Harlem: The Making of a Ghetto. Negro New York, 1890–1930*. New York: Harper &amp; Row.

Pegram, Thomas R. 1998. *Battling Demon Rum: The Struggle for a Dry America, 1800–1933*. Chicago: Dee.

Peiss, Kathy Lee. 1986. *Cheap Amusements: Working Women and Leisure in Turn-of-the-Century New York*. Philadelphia: Temple University Press.

Quammen, David. 2008. *Charles Darwin On the Origin of Species: The Illustrated Edition*. New York: Sterling.

Riis, Jacob A. 1971. *How the Other Half Lives: Studies Among the Tenements of New York*. New York: Dover.

Sinclair, Upton. 1971. *The Jungle*. Cambridge, MA: Bentley.

Von Drehle, David. 2003. *Triangle: The Fire That Changed America*. New York: Atlantic Monthly Press.

Washington, Booker T. 1963. *Up from Slavery, An Autobiography*. Garden City, NY: Doubleday.

Wiebe, Robert H. *The Search for Order, 1877–1920*. New York: Hill and Wang.

Woodward, C. Vann. 1957. *The Strange Career of Jim Crow*. New York: Oxford University Press.

### IMPERIAL EXPANSION AND THE FIRST WORLD WAR

Barry, John M. 2004. *The Great Influenza: The Epic Story of the Deadliest Plague in History*. New York: Viking Books.

Eisenhower, John S. D. 2001. *Yanks: The Epic Story of the American Army in World War I*. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.

Fromkin, David. 2004. *Europe’s Last Summer: Who Started the Great War in 1914?* New York: Knopf.

Hart, Peter. 2007. *Aces Falling: War Above the Trenches, 1918*. London: Weidenfeld &amp; Nicolson.

Hoganson, Kristin L. 1998. *Fighting for American Manhood: How Gender Politics Provoked the Spanish-American and Philippine-American Wars*. New Haven: Yale University Press.

Kaplan, Amy. 2002. *The Anarchy of Empire in the Making of U.S. Culture*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Kennedy, David M. 1980. *Over Here: The First World War and American Society*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Lengel, Edward G. 2008. *To Conquer Hell: The Meuse-Argonne, 1918*. New York: Holt.

Maier, Charles S. 2006. *Among Empires: American Ascendancy and Its Predecessors*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

McCullough, David G. 1977. *The Path between the Seas: The Creation of the Panama Canal, 1870–1914*. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.

Thomas, Evan. 2010. *The War Lovers: Roosevelt, Lodge, Hearst, and the Rush to Empire, 1898*. New York: Little, Brown.

Tooze, J. Adam. 2014. *The Deluge: The Great War and the Remaking of Global Order 1916–1931*. New York: Viking Books.

Twain, Mark. 2009. *Following the Equator A Journey Around the World*. Waiheke Island: Floating Press.

### THE ROARING TWENTIES

Allen, Frederick Lewis. 1931. *Only Yesterday: An Informal History of the Nineteen-Twenties*. New York: Harper &amp; Bros.

Bryson, Bill. 2013. *One Summer: America, 1927*. New York: Anchor Books.

Davison M. Douglas. 2005. *Jim Crow Moves North: The Battle over Northern School Desegregation, 1865–1954*. New York: Cambridge University Press.

Moore, Lucy. 2010. *Anything Goes: A Biography of the Roaring Twenties*. New York: Overlook Press.

Robinson, Thomas A., and Lanette R. Ruff. 2011. *Out of the Mouths of Babes: Girl Evangelists in the Flapper Era*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Russell, Francis. 1968. *The Shadow of Blooming Grove: Warren G. Harding in His Times*. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Shlaes, Amity. 2013. *Coolidge*. New York: Harper.

Watts, Steven. 2005. *The People’s Tycoon: Henry Ford and the American Century*. New York: Knopf.

### THE GREAT DEPRESSION AND THE NEW DEAL

Browder, Laura. 1998. *Rousing the Nation Radical Culture in Depression America*. Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press.

Cohen, Lizabeth. 1990. *Making a New Deal: Industrial Workers in Chicago, 1919–1939*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Domhoff, G. William, and Michael J. Webber. 2011. *Class and Power in the New Deal: Corporate Moderates, Southern Democrats, and the Liberal-Labor Coalition*. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.

Hamby, Alonzo L. 2004. *For the Survival of Democracy: Franklin Roosevelt and the World Crisis of the 1930s*. New York: Free Press.

Hofstadter, Richard. 1955. *The Age of Reform: From Bryan to F.D.R.* New York: Knopf.

Hurt, R. Douglas. 1984. *The Dust Bowl: An Agricultural and Social History*. Chicago: Nelson-Hall.

Katznelson, Ira. 2013. *Fear Itself: The New Deal and the Origins of Our Time*. New York: Norton.

Kennedy, David M. 1999. *Freedom from Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929–1945*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Lumley, Darwyn H. 2009. *Breaking the Banks in Motor City: The Auto Industry, the 1933 Detroit Banking Crisis and the Start of the New Deal*. Jefferson, NC: McFarland.

Poppendieck, Janet, and Marion Nestle. 2014. *Breadlines Knee-Deep in Wheat: Food Assistance in the Great Depression*. Berkeley: University of California Press.

Shindo, Charles J. 1997. *Dust Bowl Migrants in the American Imagination*. Lawrence: University of Kansas Press.

Shlaes, Amity. 2007. *The Forgotten Man: A New History of the Great Depression*. New York: HarperCollins.

Smith, Fred C. 2014. *Trouble in Goshen: Plain Folk, Roosevelt, Jesus, and Marx in the Great Depression South*. Jackson: University Press of Mississippi.

Solomon, William. 2002. *Literature, Amusement, and Technology in the Great Depression*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Terkel, Studs. 1970. *Hard Times: An Oral History of the Great Depression*. New York: Pantheon Books.

### WORLD WAR, COLD WAR, AND AMERICAN PROSPERITY

Dobrynin, Anatoly. 1995. *In Confidence: Moscow’s Ambassador to America’s Six Cold War Presidents*. New York: Crown.

Doenecke, Justus D., and Mark A. Stoler. 2005. *Debating Franklin D. Roosevelt’s Foreign Policies, 1933–1945*. Lanham, MD: Rowman &amp; Littlefield.

Fischer, Conan. 2003. *The Ruhr Crisis, 1923–1924*. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Homan, Lynn M., and Thomas Reilly. 2001. *Black Knights: The Story of the Tuskegee Airmen*. Gretna, LA: Pelican.

Kessler-Harris, Alice. 1982. *Out to Work: A History of Wage-Earning Women in the United States*. New York: Oxford University Press.

Mitchell, Greg. 1998. *Tricky Dick and the Pink Lady: Richard Nixon vs. Helen Gahagan Douglas—Sexual Politics and the Red Scare, 1950*. New York: Random House.

O’Sullivan, John. 2006. *The President, the Pope, and the Prime Minister: Three Who Changed the World*. New York: Regnery.

Overy, R. J. 1995. *Why the Allies Won*. New York: Norton.

Robinson, Jo Ann Gibson, and David J. Garrow. 1987. *The Montgomery Bus Boycott and the Women Who Started It: The Memoir of Jo Ann Gibson Robinson*. Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press.

Schweizer, Peter. 2002. *Reagan’s War: The Epic Story of His Forty-Year Struggle and Final Triumph over Communism*. New York: Doubleday.

Sone, Monica Itoi. 1979. *Nisei Daughter*. Seattle: University of Washington Press.

Weinberg, Gerhard L. 1994. *A World at Arms: A Global History of World War II*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Wyman, David S. 1998. *The Abandonment of the Jews: America and the Holocaust 1941–1945*. New York: New Press.

### FROM CAMELOT TO CULTURE WARS

Appy, Christian G. 2003. *Patriots: The Vietnam War Remembered from All Sides*. New York: Viking Books.

Branch, Taylor. 1988. *Parting the Waters: America in the King Years, 1954–63*. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.

Clendinen, Dudley, and Adam Nagourney. 1999. *Out for Good: The Struggle to Build a Gay Rights Movement in America*. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.

Clinton, Bill. 2004. *My Life*. New York: Knopf.

Cowie, Jefferson. 2010. *Stayin’ Alive: The 1970s and the Last Days of the Working Class*. New York: New Press.

Delpla, Isabelle, Xavier Bougarel, and Jean-Louis Fournel, eds. 2012. *Investigating Srebrenica: Institutions, Facts, Responsibilities*. New York: Berghahn Books.

Dudziak, Mary L. 2000. *Cold War Civil Rights: Race and the Image of American Democracy*. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.

Farber, David R. 1994. *The Age of Great Dreams: America in the 1960s*. New York: Hill and Wang.

Frank, Thomas. 2004. *What\'s the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America*. New York: Metropolitan Books.

Friedan, Betty. 1963. *The Feminine Mystique*. New York: Norton.

Gitlin, Todd. 1993. *The Sixties: Years of Hope, Days of Rage*. New York: Bantam Books.

Goodwin, Doris Kearns. 1976. *Lyndon Johnson and the American Dream*. New York: Harper &amp; Row.

Karnow, Stanley. 1983. *Vietnam, a History*. New York: Viking Press.

King, Martin Luther. 1986. *A Testament of Hope: The Essential Writings of Martin Luther King, Jr*. Edited by James Melvin Washington. San Francisco: Harper &amp; Row.

Levy, Ariel. 2006. *Female Chauvinist Pigs: Women and the Rise of Raunch Culture*. New York: Free Press.

McCain, John, and Mark Salter. 1999. *Faith of My Fathers*. New York: Random House.

Meriwether, James. 2008. “‘Worth a Lot of Negro Votes:’ Black Voters, Africa, and the 1960 Presidential Campaign.” *Journal of American History* 95(3): 737–63.

Murch, Donna Jean. 2010. *Living for the City: Migration, Education, and the Rise of the Black Panther Party in Oakland, California*. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.

Schlesinger, Arthur M. 1965. A *Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House*. Boston: Houghton Mifflin.

Selvin, Joel. 1994. *Summer of Love: The Inside Story of LSD, Rock &amp; Roll, Free Love, and High Times in the Wild West*. New York: Dutton.

Stein, Judith. 2010. *Pivotal Decade: How the United States Traded Factories for Finance in the Seventies*. New Haven: Yale University Press.

Warren Commission. 1964. *Report of the Warren Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy*. New York: McGraw-Hill.

X, Malcolm. 1992. *The Autobiography of Malcolm X*. Edited by Alex Haley. New York: One World/Ballantine Books.

### TWENTY-FIRST-CENTURY PROBLEMS

Bravin, Jess. 2013. *The Terror Courts: Rough Justice at Guantanamo Bay*. New Haven: Yale University Press.

Cowen, Tyler. 2001. *The Great Stagnation: How America Ate All the Low-Hanging Fruit of Modern History, Got Sick, and Will (Eventually) Feel Better*. New York: Dutton.

Ehrenreich, Barbara. 2001. *Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting by in America*. New York: Metropolitan Books.

Gerges, Fawaz A. 2011. *The Rise and Fall of Al-Qaeda*. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Gordon, Joy. 2010. *Invisible War: The United States and the Iraq Sanctions*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

John Cannan, 2013. “A Legislative History of the Affordable Care Act: How Legislative Procedure Shapes Legislative History.” *Law Library Journal* 105(2): 132–73.

Keen, D. 2012. *Useful Enemies: When Waging Wars Is More Important than Winning Them*. New Haven: Yale University Press.

Lance, Peter. 2004. *1000 Years for Revenge: International Terrorism and the FBI*. New York: Regan Books.

Lewis, Michael. 2010. *The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine*. New York: Norton.

Little, Douglas. 2002. *American Orientalism: The United States and the Middle East since 1945*. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.

Oreskes, Naomi, and Erik M. Conway. 2010. *Merchants of Doubt: How a Handful of Scientists Obscured the Truth on Issues from Tobacco Smoke to Global Warming*. New York: Bloomsbury Press.

Rivoli, Pietra. 2005. *The Travels of a T-Shirt in the Global Economy: An Economist Examines the Markets, Power and Politics of World Trade*. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley.

Simon, Bryant. 2009. *Everything but the Coffee: Learning About America from Starbucks*. Berkeley: University of California Press.

Wright, Lawrence. 2006. *The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda and the Road to 9/11*. New York: Knopf.

